cv.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: CV
comments: true
---


Education
=========

#### 2019 - Present | PhD, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany
I am currently researching the properties and dynamics of topological magnetic structures using a mixture of analytical and numerical methods. I work under the supervision of [Dr. Karin Everschor-Sitte](https://www.twist.uni-mainz.de/dr-karin-everschor-sitte/), and my current work involves investigating the shedding of magnetic structures from magnetic impurities in two and three dimensions.


#### 2015 - 2019 | MPhys, Durham University, Durham, England

**MPhys Physics, First Class Honours** \\
Throughout my studies, I obtained firsts (the highest grade in UK universities) in all modules from my second year onwards. This is in addition to undertaking an internship during each summer throughout my degree, as well as being a member of the executive committees of various university societies, as described below. \\
\\
My [fourth-year project]({{ site.url }}/download/FourthYearReport.pdf), supervised by [Prof. Peter Hatton](https://www.dur.ac.uk/physics/staff/profiles/?id=540), involved using micromagnetic simulations to investigate the resonance modes of antiskyrmions. For a figure in this, I was awarded the [Florence Nightingale Graphical Excellence Prize](https://www.dur.ac.uk/resources/physics/students/labs/skills/reportwriting/graphicalexcellence/GraphicalExcellenceWinners2019.pdf). \\
\\
During my studies, I held a number of positions on the executive committees of university societies, including Co-President of the Durham University Physics Society and Secretary of the Durham University Astronomical Society. \\
\\
A full list of the courses I took, as well as my raw marks in each, can be found [here]({{ site.url }}/download/Courses.pdf).


#### 2013 - 2015 | A Levels, Paston College, North Walsham, England[^1]
Physics - A* \\
Chemistry - A* \\
Mathematics - A* \\
Further Mathematics - A \\
AS Biology - A \\
AS Critical Thinking - A \\
\\
In addition to my A Level studies, I undertook some work experience placements, as well as obtaining Silver certificates in both the 2015 UK Chemistry Olympiad and the 2014 UKMT Senior Mathematical Challenge. I was also awarded the Sir William Paston Scholarship worth £500 in recognition of outstanding GCSE results. I also taught myself AS Level further mathematics over the summer break between the academic years of A Levels in preparation for classes to obtain the full A Level.


#### 2011 - 2013 | GCSEs, Broadland High School, Hoveton, England[^2]
Physics: A\*, Chemistry: A\*, Biology: A\*, Mathematics: A\*, Religious Studies: A\*, Geography: A\*, English Language: A\*, English Literature: A, Information Technology: A, French: A



Experience
==========

#### July - August 2018 | Internship in Computational Condensed Matter Physics, Durham University, Durham, England

Unter the supervision of [Prof. Tom Lancaster](https://www.dur.ac.uk/physics/staff/profiles/?id=9538), I wrote a [Python module](https://rossknapman.com/MuDip/) to calculated the field experienced by muons when embedded in skyrmion-like spin textures.


#### June - September 2017 | DAAD RISE Research Internship, German Aerospace Center (DLR) Oberpfaffenhofen, Weßling, Germany

During this highly competitive research internship funded by the DAAD, I worked as part of a small team under the supervision of Dr. Jonas Herbst and Dr. Patrick Vrancken developing a [lidar system to detect atmospheric turbulence from aircraft](https://www.osapublishing.org/ao/abstract.cfm?uri=ao-55-25-6910). This involved taking ground-based measurements, as well as carrying out data analysis. The DAAD RISE Scholarship funded living and travel expenses, as well as a conference in Heidelberg for all DAAD RISE scholars.


#### June - August 2016 | Galaxy Survey Visualisation Internship, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia

Working at the University of Queensland under the supervision of Dr Ed Macaulay, I developed some Android apps to visualise galaxy redshift surveys. As the apps were developed using Unity, this involved programming C#. Additionally, I participated in many meetings discussing cosmology.


#### Earlier Internships

During my A Level studies, I participated in the Met Office's 2014 work experience week for 14-17-year-olds in Exeter. Additionally, for several months during my first year of A Levels, I undertook several months of weekly work experience sessions at the John Innes Centre, a plant and microbial science research institute in Norwich.



Teaching
========

#### Senior Assistant *(Oberassistent)*, Mathematical Methods

From March to July 2020, I aided with the teaching of the first-semester Mathematical Methods course, taught by Karin Everschor-Sitte and Jairo Sinova. This involved writing up the problems sheets, and coordinating the tutors to ensure that the course is run effectively. This was made fairly challenging as a result of the Covid-19 situation, meaning that we had to quickly adapt to an unfamiliar situation.


#### Tutor, Experimental Physics 5A

My first teaching position as a PhD student was for Experimental Physics 5A, taught by Prof. Randolf Pohl. During this, I assisted in the problems classes.



Skills
======

#### Computer Skills

Skill | Approximate Frequency of Use | Examples of My Use
--- | --- | ---
Python | Daily | Analysing data from simulations, automating tasks
LaTeX | Daily | Typesetting analytical calculations, writing problems sheets, writing letters (this is my go-to typesetting tool)
Vim | Daily | Anything involving coding at the moment
Shell Scripting | Daily | Automating my simulation and data analysis workflow, customising my operating system
Inkscape | Weekly | Making figures for presentations and problems sheets
Processing | Monthly | Making 3D scientific figures
Blender | Monthly | Making 3D scientific figures
C++ | Monthly | Calculations for which Python is inefficient
Java | Yearly | Used a few times for personal projects


#### Operating Systems

- Linux: Experience with Arch (for personal use) and Ubuntu (for scientific use)
- Mac: Used Mac computers for around 10 years
- Windows: Use occasionally if I need to, have owned Windows computers in the past (back in Windows 7 days)


#### Languages

- English: Native
- German: Conversational knowledge (self-taught to B2 level, attended B2 lessons October 2019 to April 2020, often use socially and sometimes professionally)
- French: Achieved GCSE grade A, currently trying to improve but it's kind of on the back-burner


\\
\\
[Download my CV as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/download/CV.pdf)

[^1]: A Levels are the qualifications that many people complete in the UK in preparation for university, typically between the ages of 16 and 18. Unlike in many countries where students study many more subjects up to 18, students typically study four subjects in their first year of A Levels (all of which are their own choice), and drop down to three in their second year. When I was doing A Levels, dropping a subject after one year rather than studying it for the entire two years resulted in obtaining an 'AS Level' in that subject.
[^2]: GCSEs are the qualifications obtained in the UK between the ages of 14 and 16, before leaving high school and going to e.g. sixth form.

Commit message:

Some small changes to CV

cv.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: CV
comments: false
---


Education
=========

#### 2019 - Present | PhD, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany
I am currently researching the properties and dynamics of topological magnetic structures using a mixture of analytical and numerical methods. I work under the supervision of [Dr. Karin Everschor-Sitte](https://www.twist.uni-mainz.de/dr-karin-everschor-sitte/), and my current work involves investigating the shedding of magnetic structures from magnetic impurities in two and three dimensions.


#### 2015 - 2019 | MPhys, Durham University, Durham, England

**MPhys Physics, First Class Honours** \\
Throughout my studies, I obtained firsts (the highest grade in UK universities) in all modules from my second year onwards. This is in addition to undertaking an internship during each summer throughout my degree, as well as being a member of the executive committees of various university societies, as described below. \\
\\
My [fourth-year project]({{ site.url }}/download/FourthYearReport.pdf), supervised by [Prof. Peter Hatton](https://www.dur.ac.uk/physics/staff/profiles/?id=540), involved using micromagnetic simulations to investigate the resonance modes of antiskyrmions. For a figure in this, I was awarded the [Florence Nightingale Graphical Excellence Prize](https://www.dur.ac.uk/resources/physics/students/labs/skills/reportwriting/graphicalexcellence/GraphicalExcellenceWinners2019.pdf). \\
\\
During my studies, I held a number of positions on the executive committees of university societies, including Co-President of the Durham University Physics Society and Secretary of the Durham University Astronomical Society. \\
\\
A full list of the courses I took, as well as my raw marks in each, can be found [here]({{ site.url }}/download/Courses.pdf).


#### 2013 - 2015 | A Levels, Paston College, North Walsham, England[^1]
Physics - A* \\
Chemistry - A* \\
Mathematics - A* \\
Further Mathematics - A \\
AS Biology - A \\
AS Critical Thinking - A \\
\\
In addition to my A Level studies, I undertook some work experience placements, as well as obtaining Silver certificates in both the 2015 UK Chemistry Olympiad and the 2014 UKMT Senior Mathematical Challenge. I was also awarded the Sir William Paston Scholarship worth £500 in recognition of outstanding GCSE results. I also taught myself AS Level further mathematics over the summer break between the academic years of A Levels in preparation for classes to obtain the full A Level.


#### 2011 - 2013 | GCSEs, Broadland High School, Hoveton, England[^2]
Physics: A\*, Chemistry: A\*, Biology: A\*, Mathematics: A\*, Religious Studies: A\*, Geography: A\*, English Language: A\*, English Literature: A, Information Technology: A, French: A



Experience
==========

#### July - August 2018 | Internship in Computational Condensed Matter Physics, Durham University, Durham, England

Unter the supervision of [Prof. Tom Lancaster](https://www.dur.ac.uk/physics/staff/profiles/?id=9538), I wrote a [Python module](https://rossknapman.com/MuDip/) to calculated the field experienced by muons when embedded in skyrmion-like spin textures.


#### June - September 2017 | DAAD RISE Research Internship, German Aerospace Center (DLR) Oberpfaffenhofen, Weßling, Germany

During this highly competitive research internship funded by the DAAD, I worked as part of a small team under the supervision of Dr. Jonas Herbst and Dr. Patrick Vrancken developing a [lidar system to detect atmospheric turbulence from aircraft](https://www.osapublishing.org/ao/abstract.cfm?uri=ao-55-25-6910). This involved taking ground-based measurements, as well as carrying out data analysis. The DAAD RISE Scholarship funded living and travel expenses, as well as a conference in Heidelberg for all DAAD RISE scholars. I wrote some reports outlining [what I did]({{ site.url }}/download/DLRReport.pdf), as well as [my impressions of Germany as a whole]({{ site.url }}/download/RISEReport.pdf).


#### June - August 2016 | Galaxy Survey Visualisation Internship, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia

Working at the University of Queensland under the supervision of Dr Ed Macaulay, I developed some Android apps to visualise galaxy redshift surveys. As the apps were developed using Unity, this involved programming C#. Additionally, I participated in many meetings discussing cosmology.


#### Earlier Internships

During my A Level studies, I participated in the Met Office's 2014 work experience week for 14-17-year-olds in Exeter. Additionally, for several months during my first year of A Levels, I undertook several months of weekly work experience sessions at the John Innes Centre, a plant and microbial science research institute in Norwich.



Teaching
========

#### Senior Assistant *(Oberassistent)*, Mathematical Methods

From March to July 2020, I aided with the teaching of the first-semester Mathematical Methods course, taught by Karin Everschor-Sitte and Jairo Sinova. This involved writing up the problems sheets, and coordinating the tutors to ensure that the course is run effectively. This was made fairly challenging as a result of the Covid-19 situation, meaning that we had to quickly adapt to an unfamiliar situation.


#### Tutor, Experimental Physics 5A

My first teaching position as a PhD student was for Experimental Physics 5A, taught by Prof. Randolf Pohl. During this, I assisted in the problems classes.



Skills
======

#### Computer Skills

Skill | Approximate Frequency of Use | Examples of My Use
--- | --- | ---
Python | Daily | Analysing data from simulations, automating tasks
LaTeX | Daily | Typesetting analytical calculations, writing problems sheets, writing letters (this is my go-to typesetting tool)
Vim | Daily | Anything involving coding at the moment
Shell Scripting | Daily | Automating my simulation and data analysis workflow, customising my operating system
Inkscape | Weekly | Making figures for presentations and problems sheets
Processing | Monthly | Making 3D scientific figures
Blender | Monthly | Making 3D scientific figures
C++ | Monthly | Calculations for which Python is inefficient
Java | Yearly | Used a few times for personal projects


#### Operating Systems

- Linux: Experience with Arch (for personal use) and Ubuntu (for scientific use)
- Mac: Used Mac computers for around 10 years
- Windows: Use occasionally if I need to, have owned Windows computers in the past (back in Windows 7 days)


#### Languages

- English: Native
- German: Conversational knowledge (self-taught to B2 level, attended B2 lessons October 2019 to April 2020, often use socially and sometimes professionally)
- French: Achieved GCSE grade A, currently trying to improve but it's kind of on the back-burner


\\
\\
[Download my CV as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/download/CV.pdf)

[^1]: A Levels are the qualifications that many people complete in the UK in preparation for university, typically between the ages of 16 and 18. Unlike in many countries where students study many more subjects up to 18, students typically study four subjects in their first year of A Levels (all of which are their own choice), and drop down to three in their second year. When I was doing A Levels, dropping a subject after one year rather than studying it for the entire two years resulted in obtaining an 'AS Level' in that subject.
[^2]: GCSEs are the qualifications obtained in the UK between the ages of 14 and 16, before leaving high school and going to e.g. sixth form.
